Do you want subtitles for any video?
-=[ ai.OpenSubtitles.com ]=-
- Mm. I can't find the right form.
You'll have to come back in an hour.
- Nope. The bosses need to book
their pool inspection.
- I'm needed in the council meeting.
- An online booking system would
be more efficient and less archaic.
- Hmm. You're a motel cleaner.
Saffron.
- And you're pushing
your luck. Sheree.
- I really need to get
to that meeting.
- All right.
Also on the agenda for today. um...
a matter that's really
close to my heart.
- Not the bloody cats again.
- They are vicious predators.
- Honestly. who voted her on?
She's bonkers.
- These cats are killing
our native birdlife.
They need to be banned from
Mowai Bay and the entire peninsula.
That's good.
That's really good.
- Fill it in during business hours.
Monday to Friday.
- Nope. I'll fill it now and book
the pool inspection... now.
- You have to pay a fee.
and I don't have time to
fire up the EFTPOS machine.
- Yes. I do clean a motel. Sheree.
A motel with a pool.
which people can't swim in if
the council doesn't inspect it.
And if people can't swim.
they're in their rooms making
a mess. which I have to clean.
- Most business owners diarise
when their pool inspection is due.
not leave it till the last minute
like your bosses have.
- They're new. They make mistakes.
Whereas you've been behind this desk
since that blouse was in fashion...
the first time round.
- You think our native
birdlife dying is funny?
- It's a human right to own a pet.
- And it's my right to wanna live
in a world with trees and birdlife.
- No one's stopping ya.
- You decide you wanna cut
a native tree. and suddenly
the bylaws are changed.
- t's a hazard.
- No. it's not.
It's blocking your sea view.
- Look ― what I do on my property
is none of your business.
- And the dotterelsaremy business.
I propose that we ban
domestic cats by the year―
- I propose that this meeting
is over. It's 1 o'clock.
Sheree.
- Oh.
- Huh?
Oh― Thank you.
- Pool inspection's booked
for Tuesday.
- Brilliant. Thank you. Saffron.
- Sweet. See you tomorrow.
- Oh. hang on. hang on.
You've still got the beachfront
units to turn around.
- But I went to the council for you.
- You volunteered to go.
- Yeah. because I didn't
want to do the beachfront units.
and I helped you skip the queue.
It was gonna be three weeks
for an inspection.
- Really?
- So I roughed up the receptionist.
- Nah. she's joking. Vin.
You're joking. right?
- Oh my God. fine.
I'll do the beachfront units.
- Well. she booked
the pool inspection.
- Gordon's not here.
He doesn't vote.
- I've tried calling him several
times. but he didn't answer.
- Gordon's never late.
- Sheree. go and check on him.
- Me? Why me?
- Cos you're not a councillor.
Fine. Let's take a break
while we wait for Gordon.
Anyone for a non-binary
gingerbread person?
- Gordon.
Hello. Gordon.
Gordon?
Gordon!
-  can't get it out of
my head. I just can't unsee it.
His own cat.
- Uh. I don't―
I don't think that the. um...
Sorry. I'll be right back.
- Hey.
- Hey. um... this is a big one.
Homicide. Head of Mowai Council.
- City Homicide on the way?
- Yeah. Um...
I just wanted another check through.
Gotta get my initial report right.
- Huh.
- Yeah.
- Well. the cat's innocent.
- Unless the floof
can hold a knife.
- Multiple stab wounds.
Is there a murder weapon?
- Uh. the initial sweep
didn't turn anything up.
- All right.
Well. let's take a look around.
- Hello. Hey.
Hey. what's going on?
Is that a cop car out the front?
- Yeah. Uh...
You a friend of Gordon's?
- Yeah.
Why? What's he done now?
- Mate. I'm really sorry.
- Jamie.
- I'll bag it.
- And. um...
- ...dust the dishwasher...
- ...for prints.
- You got it.
- When was the last
time you saw him?
- Uh. a couple weeks ago.
We usually catch up on
a Friday night. but...
he took a rain check.
He said he was seeing a lady.
- Any idea who?
- No.
Shit. A home invasion...
in Mowai Bay. it's just―
it's unbelievable.
- So you're a local. then?
- Yeah. The wife and I are up
on the hill above the main road.
- So how do you know Gordon?
- This used to be my grandpa's place.
Yeah. so he passed away 10 years
ago. and Gordon bought it.
The place was in good hands.
Gordon might've looked like
a suit. but... nah.
He was a good guy.
- I'll grab your number in case
Constable Haira has any questions.
Gordon had a date on Friday night.
- ID on that date?
- Negative. Mobile phone?
- I haven't seen one.
There was a knife in the dishwasher.
so someone had the presence of mind
to cover their tracks.
Get rid of any prints. DNA.
- And not have to take
the murder weapon with him.
- Premeditation.
- Can I help you?
- Uh... these are my consultants ―
from Australia.
- Pete Coleman. My wife. Vinny.
- The people who run a motel.
- And 20 years with
the New South Wales Police Force.
- Constable Haira requested
a second look over the scene.
- He's bagged a clean kitchen knife.
Possibly a match for the victim's
stab wounds.
- Yeah. thanks for that. We'd like
to keep the scene secure. so...
- Of course. Absolutely.
We'll. um... We'll leave you to it.
detective...?
- Grainger ― Annette ―
Northern Homicide.
Constable. what are
these prints? A dog?
- Uh. Gordon's cat.
Haven't seen it yet.
- She was―
- Don't say it. Vin.
- She was an arsehole.
Just an observation.
- And if the roles were reversed?
You're investigating a scene.
and two randoms are there.
- It's a big case. Surely all...
hands on deck is a good thing.
- Uh. a― am I allowed to go?
- Uh. you found the body here?
- I did.
Sheree Rothery. Yes. Gordon
was late to a council meeting.
so I came to...
find him.
- Well. if Constable Haira's taken
your statement. you can go home.
- He has. so thank you.
- Oh. and Sheree. if you need
support or to talk to anyone.
you just reach out.
- I'm fine. thank you.
- Well. at least Detective Grainger
has finally shown up.
- Hmm.
- Dogs will wait till they're
starving. but cats...
they'll just go for it.
They'll eat their owner right up.
- The cat did not eat Gordon.
But it has disappeared.
- Just like his mobile phone.
Have you got that number. S―?
Thank you.
- If the killer has Gordon's phone.
they're not gonna answer it.
- This is Gordon.
Leave a message.
- Well. they didn't
turn it off either.
- And what are you two doing
about this homicide?
- The police have it
under control. Maxine.
- Well. this is terrifying.
- Poor Sheree. man. First
she gets bullied at work. and―
- By you.
- Yeah. and then she finds
her ex-boyfriend dead.
- Sheree and Gordon were together?
-Brutalbreak up. too.
- Honey. did you notice Sheree.
when she was leaving. her―?
- The handbag.
Yeah. I did.
- Comms to Mowai Bay.
- Yeah. Mowai Bay here.
- Need you on a 2R. Someone's driven
a digger into Mowai Estuary.
- Copy. 1W? Wait. that's the code
for water rescue. right?
- Nah. there's no one inside.
It's just a digger.
- I'm scene guarding a homicide.
mean. a one...
- All good. constable?
- Yeah. Just a 2R.
Nothing to worry about.
- Off you go. then.
- But it's just―
It's not urgent.
- 10-2. Constable Haira's
on his way.
We got this. Toodle-oo.
Yeah. sorry about that. mate.
- Thanks for meeting with us.
- We realise it's been a hard day.
- Oh. it just doesn't feel real.
I mean. those... cat prints.
I just...
I never trusted that cat.
It wasn't a friendly one.
- Sheree. how long were
you and Gordon together?
- Seven months.
He broke it off a few weeks ago.
but we were fine.
In fact. we had a drink here
Friday evening. He was giving me
the last of my things.
- Why didn't he
give you those things at
the council meeting on Friday?
- Well. he didn't like to mix
his work life and personal.
Which is. you know.
ultimately why he ended things.
- So you have a drink here.
then you go home.
You didn't go back to his place?
- He didn't invite me.
- Did Gordon have his phone
with him while you were here?
- Um. well. probably. I don't know.
- OK. I might. um...
might grab a beer after all.
You want one?
- Yeah.
- So what will happen to the cat?
I'm assuming it'll be put down.
- Uh. it hasn't turned up yet.
And you know as well as I do
the cat didn't kill Gordon.
Two phones?
- No.
I meant. yeah.
- Oh. well. feel free
to answer the other one.
- Oh. no. It's fine. They can wait.
- No. no. I insist.
- Hello. Sheree speaking.
- Gidday. Sheree.
- Do you wanna tell us why you
have your dead ex-boyfriend's phone?
- I'm so sorry.
- No. no. no. no. It's OK.
Just... take your time.
- It was on the kitchen
counter...
and  grabbed it.
and I ran.
- So Gordon's lying there.
and the first thing you do
is look for his phone.
- I needed to get out of there.
I mean. what if she was
still in the house?
- She?
- Rachel.
The cat. And when I got outside.
I called 111.
- From Gordon's phone?
- Oh...
From my own.
OK. The truth.
- Yes. please.
- Late Friday night. I...
texted him a few times.
and phoned him. and left some...
impolite messages.
It was after a bottle
of Chardonnay at home.
- The thing is. Sheree.
taking the victim's phone
from the crime scene...
makes you look really guilty.
- But I thought
I'd look bad if anyone ever
saw or read the messages.
- Depending on the timeline
and GPS pinging. those messages
might actually clear you.
- Really?
The problem is.
I couldn't get into it.
- Well. she said she tried Gordon's
birthday and her birthday.
What else can we try?
Hey. why are you still here?
- I fell asleep in Unit 9.
Well. don't worry. I won't charge you
for the extra three hours I was here.
- This is Gordon's phone?
Are you trying to break into it?
- We'd like to.
- You know I love me
a code-cracking challenge.
- We should give it to Jamie
and the homicide detective.
- Well. it can't hurt. Just. like.
a little― just a little sneaky peek.
- All right. Well.
if Saffron can get into it.
- If? Give me a star sign
and a favourite band.
and I can get into
anybody's business.
- Enjoy your stay.
- Hey. Cole.
What do you make of this?
Reid. Ryder. Marshall.
- Send them through to me.
I'll check them out.
- Hey. guys. Someone from
the council's arrived to see you ―
about poor Gordon. maybe.
- Pool inspection.
We triple-checked the measurements.
- What was your name?
- Poppy McMahon.
- Tragedy about Gordon.
What do you think happened?
- Vin. Vin.
Should we let her focus
on the inspection first?
- Was he well liked?
- We're all grieving and shaken up. I
mean. Gordon was a fellow councillor.
Just hope the rest of us are safe.
- Safe?
- Council business
isn't all sunshine and rainbows.
- You have to make
unpopular decisions.
- Just like this one.
This is a fail.
- Why?
- Hinges are too slow to self-close.
Get your hinges sorted.
and go for another inspection.
- Shit. I mean.
does that mean we have to pay
for another inspection as well?
Bloody crooks.
- Our pool gate was slow
to close. so we failed.
- Well. I didn't fail.
Gordon was vain.
- And?
- The birthday he gave Sheree wasn't
real. so I snooped on his socials.
Found out that two years ago.
he went to a bunch of 50th
birthday parties.
So I swapped the 75 to a 73.
and hello.
- It's true. You have a talent.
Shall we take a browse?
- Or we could just give it to Jamie.
- Honey. why are you being such
a goody two-shoes all of a sudden?
- Why not both?
I can transfer the files to your PC.
- You can?
- My ex was not to be trusted.
so I taught myself how to do it
so I could catch her out
at my own leisure.
- And she was the untrustworthy one?
- Well. let's just say
she wasn't at Toastmasters
every Tuesday night. Cole.
My work here is done.
- And your work in units three
and four is just beginning.
Thank you.
Mm.
There's Gordon's phone.
Here are Sheree's voice messages.
I hope it falls off. And you
are a five and a half at best.
All I need to know is why. Gordon?
Why you couldn't say. 'I love you.'
Why don't you love me?
But I'm―
- Just the Chardonnay talking.
do we think?
- Did Gordon have any
other plans Friday?
- Um...
Uh. Select and Swig. Regular thing.
8pm every Friday.
- Something to do with beer.
A beer tasting?
- Aw. look at this app.
'Rachel GPS'. Aw. His cat...
has a GPS tracker.
I mean. if we can locate the cat...
guess it was weird how
those bloody paw prints just...
disappeared.
All right. See what else
you can find. I'm gonna
take this phone to the police.
- Hmm.
- Jamie.
Victim's phone.
Sheree Rothery removed it from
the scene when she found the body.
- Oh wow.
- Yeah. Vin's reviewing
the contents.
but if Sheree's telling the truth.
message history should clear her.
- It's just―
I'm not meant to be on this case.
- What?
- She's taken over my desk.
And I have to track down the owner
of an abandoned digger.
- Wait. A digger?
Where?
- Dragged it out of Mowai Estuary
like a glorified tow truck driver.
- Driving distance from Gordon's?
- Sure.
- Does that look like a digger
tyre track to you?
-  can line it up
with the real thing.
- Could be a connection
worth checking out or passing on.
Or I can.
- Haira. did you contact ESR?
- Uh...
- Oh. Mr Motel.
- Morning. detective.
- ESR ― Uh. do you mean PHF?
- Yes. They have changed it
to PHF science ― formerly ESR.
Showing my vintage.
Environmental Science and Research.
- You outsource your CSI work?
- We don't have the FETSC
like your lot over the ditch.
- Forensic Evidence and Technical
Services Command. Has around
900 police and civilians.
- And the population of Sydney
is the same as all of New Zealand.
- Cole and Vinnie. uh.
found the victim's missing phone.
- I also noted some unusual
tyre tracks at the scene.
Now. call me crazy. but I'm
wondering if there's a connection
between this dumped digger―
- You're crazy if you think that
I'm going to let a couple of retired
officers from another country
muddy this investigation.
- Right. Well.
we have been consulting.
- Yeah. 'm here now.
I appreciate your interest.
but we have our way of doing things.
and our way works.
- Message understood. detective.
- 'I appreciate your interest.'
Arsehole.
- She's just a little territorial.
- Did she at least thank you
for recovering the victim's phone?
What did Jamie think?
Well. she better be
treating him nicely.
Just remembering how Burnsie
used to treat you.
- Well.
I was a better detective for it.
- Honey. he was a prick.
- You're rewriting history.
- And then he kicked you
in the guts.
He kicked both of us―
- Honey. stop. Wh―
Why are you bringing
all this up again?
- I just feel...
I dunno. We're here helping Jamie
where we can. and I...
I wasn't ready for the scrap heap.
- You're not on the scrap heap.
see her. and...
that used to be me.
No.
Vin. no. not even close.
You are a much better detective
than Annette Grainger will ever be.
Better?
- Yeah. That's a pass. I'd say.
So. um. are we backing off. or...
- Well...
we found the victim's phone.
Guess we could. uh...
find the victim's cat.
- Well. according to the app. floof
should've wandered right about here.
- Puss. puss. puss. puss. puss.
- Try up an octave.
Like. 'puss. puss. Puss. puss.'
- Puss. puss. puss.
- Puss.
- OK.
- Puss. puss. puss. puss. puss.
Come on.
Puss. puss. puss. puss. puss. puss.
- Oh wow.
The app actually works.
- Floof managed to get that off.
- Yeah. and that attaches
securely to a collar.
- Why do you keep saying... 'Floof'?
- So someone with opposable thumbs
clearly took this off and tossed it.
and because it'scute.
Well. we need to find out why.
and if it's... connected― Wha―
Why are you
giving me the eyebrow?
- You're cute.
- Come on.
- Paw prints prove that the cat
was with the body for a bit.
- Witnessed the whole thing.
you reckon?
- Well. if it did.
it could've been riddled with DNA.
and the killer just disposed of it.
Coincidence?
- In Mowai Bay?
I think not.
- Hmm. There's a definite increase
in missing cat posts.
- Don't they... just roam?
- No. cat mamas know the difference
between their fur bubbas roaming and
their fur bubbas that go missing.
Poor Andrea. She's beside herself.
Her TikTok cat's gone missing.
- TikTok cat?
- Yeah. Jewel.
She's got thousands
of TikTok followers.
She wears a little GoPro.
and we get to follow her and
her little bitty adventures.
But the poor little
fur bubba disappeared.
- OK. I'm not sticking around.
- Oh. you got a little
bit of problem. honey?
- I'm out.
Thanks for meeting me.
- No worries.
Happy to help. I just...
Uh... you know. head's still
spinnin'. to be honest.
- Yeah.
Can you think of anyone
who had it in for Gordon?
- Sheree is the obvious person
who springs to mind.
- Yeah. Right. Bad break-up.
- Mm.
- Someone mentioned
this council business
might've made him a few enemies.
- Maybe. I find that stuff
pretty dull. to be honest.
- Mm.
And then there's this young woman
who came to do our pool inspection.
Apparently she's now worried
for her own safety.
- Not Poppy McMahon.
- Yes.
- Yeah.
Poppy ― short for unpopular.
Well. yeah. She did fail us
for our pool gate taking half
a second too long to close.
- Course she did. She voted down
my shark net campaign.
The wife and I.
we've been fighting to get
shark nets in the bay for years.
Poppy comes along.
she kicks up a fuss.
- Sharks are a problem here?
- Uh... So. that's my best mate.
He was killed in a shark attack
here in the bay in 2001.
- Oh. mate. I'm so sorry.
- My wife. Jodie. she was his
girlfriend at the time. and. um...
Grief... yeah.
it kinda brought us together.
Anyway. Poppy. she's a rabid
greenie. and it just― it became
a battle that we couldn't win.
- Oh. I guess those shark nets
aren't great for other marine life.
though. too. right?
- Well. you know
what's not great. Cole?
The years of bloody therapy I had to
go through after seeing my friend―
You know. hearing him...
- Shhhit. You were there.
- We were. uh... young and dumb.
and we thought a midnight surf
was a good idea.
Anyway. Poppy and Gordon ―
no love lost there. for sure.
I mean. different generation.
but. you know. she's a bit of
a radical.
Oh. it's the darling wife.
Hey. I better go.
- Right-oh.
- See ya.
- What did Lincoln want?
- Just answering a few... questions.
How long have you been here?
- I'm on a date.
Hey. we don't look like siblings.
do we? I don't wanna be
a 'doppelbanger'.
- No. You're. uh.
golden.
Hey. how do you know Lincoln?
- Well. everyone knows
of Lincoln and Jodie.
Cos of the shark thing.
- He came to Gordon's yesterday
morning bringing him coffees.
-  would
bring them a coffee the next day.
So then if someone says.
'You killed him.'
bring him
coffee if I knew he was dead?'
- Yeah. that's not
the genius move you think it is.
- Hmm.
Well. do you reckon Lincoln and
Jodie have something to do with it?
- I'm just trying to find anything
that doesn't involve a cat.
at this point.
- Uh. no. Vinnie.
I did not look into that.
Because it's a cat.
- I know. Jamie. but Andrea's...
beside herself with Jewel's
disappearance.
- Yeah. I know.
She's been calling me every day.
Look ― what is this actually about?
- I'm just working through
all the threads.
and it doesn't seem like
a burglary gone wrong.
or a random act of violence.
- Yeah. We don't have random
acts of violence.
- No. but what we do have is
a whole lot of missing cats.
And one of them
is a witness to a murder.
- Uh. copy that.
I will look into it.
Hey. um.
Vinnie and Cole found the GPS tag
for the victim's missing cat.
and apparently there are more cats
that have disappeared.
- Right. Well. good.
Let Mr and Mrs Motel
look for missing cats.
- Yeah― It's just that
what I've learned from them...
- Mm.
- ...is that sometimes the small.
random things can be the key.
- Haira. listen. There's usually
a reason why cops retire early.
like... they can't hack it.
- Vinnie and Cole
aren't really the 'can't hack―'
- Stress.
bad health. medical condition
that you don't know about. I dunno.
- Or maybe they just
wanted to move somewhere sunny
and enjoy their lives.
- So let them.
They can investigate missing pets.
You and I ― let's
get on with the real work.
-  can't sleep...
and I'm
stress drinking.
- You know. there are people
who have pets. and there are
people who have fur bubbas.
- Oh.
- Thanks for taking this seriously.
- Oh. Yeah.
I might just have a look
at the last GoPro footage.
- And then the battery died.
so I don't know what happened.
- Mm-hm.
Well― Well. they― they took her.
darling. Clear as day.
- Might just go back a bit.
- I've been waiting
for a ransom note.
- But so far. nothing.
- I've heard that jangle before.
- Poppy isn't here.
She only comes in for meetings.
- Can I get an address. phone number?
- Is it about the pool inspection?
- No. But actually. we do need to
get her back out for that. Yes.
- Is this about Gordon?
Oh my goodness.
Of course.
- Why do you say that?
- Standby. caller.
These are the last few
council meeting minutes.
Gordon and Poppy argued
almost every meeting.
She's a greenie. and Gordon cares
more about tax cuts and cars.
- That way of thinking
iskillingour world.
- So dramatic. Chill.
- Calling a woman dramatic
is gaslighting
and a patriarchal tool
used to dismiss our concerns.
- No one else
seems to buy into that wokeness.
- You are a sexist bully. Gordon.
- And he was sexist... and a bully.
but I loved him.
And Poppy could fixate on things.
- Like cats?
- She thinks they should be banned.
Gordon mocked her relentlessly.
Someone needs to tell my husband.
- Tell him what?
- That I'm always right.
Say it.
- The cats are relevant. and you
are always right. my amazing wife.
- Come on.
It's never hard for me to say that.
D-d-d-d-d-d― Wait.
- Mm-mm. Oh no. no. no.
No. no. no. no.
- Yes. yes. yes. yes. yes. yes.
- Later. later. later. later.
We need to look at Poppy.
- Poppy.
Later. I'm holding you to that.
Never hard for you to do that either.
Nice place.
- Just a quick visit. right?
I really wanna get back to
... later.
- We will get back
to later. I promise.
So Poppy is a part-time chef
at a vegan cafe.
Youngest member of
the Mowai Bay Council.
Ah. Look at that.
She gate-crashed a fashion show
and threw fake blood on someone
wearing a fur coat.
- Kills cats to save birds.
- Kills a man to kill his cat
to save the birds.
- Oh.
- Backpack.
- Wait. Is that...
moving?
- Oh. tell me it's not a cat
about to go for a swim.
Hey!
- Poppy!
Poppy. stop!
What's in the bag. Poppy?
- Just wine. snacks.
Gonna go for a paddle and a picnic.
- Wine that miaows.
- OK. I have to say it.
Let the cat out of the bag. Poppy.
- I didn't hurt any of them.
- So how many cats have you taken?
- Just six.
- And put them on Barren Island.
- I'm protecting
our Mowai Bay birds.
- There's nothing on Barren Island.
There's nothing for them to eat.
-  recognise that.
Look ― I tried to cull the cats. but
couldn't bring myself to.
So I kayak over every night
to feed them.
They're all fine. They...
kinda became a cat family.
- OK. so on Friday night. you went
to Gordon's with the intention
of just taking his cat.
- And you didn't see
anything or anyone?
- You didn't notice the blood
on the cat's paws?
- No. It was da― dark.
I didn't notice.
I just put him in there.
Look ― I see how this appears.
but I didn't kill Gordon.
He was a horrible human being.
but I save creatures.
don't kill them.
- Yeah. I'm gonna have to get
you to stick around. Poppy.
I'll call Detective Grainger.
get her to come back
and take a statement.
- Oh...
OK. You don't want us to―
- Yeah. That's― That's great.
Thanks. Jamie. We'll see ya.
- Thanks.
Oh. uh... one favour. though.
- Yeah. What do you need?
- No more saying yes to favours
until we know what they are.
- Wha― It wants to sleep with us.
- Well. there's only room
for two in this bed.
- Aw.
- Come on. sweetie.
I'll get Gordon's mate Lincoln
to pick her up tomorrow.
- Mm-kay.
- Good girl.
OK.
Night.
- Mm.
Is it later?
- What?
- Is that you touching my leg?
- No.
- Oh!
Oh. honey.
- I'll take her up to
Gordon's sister in Auckland.
Wish I could keep the poor thing.
but wife's allergic.
- Hi.
- Hey.
- Yeah. I wish we could keep her.
too. but. um...
I don't want to.
- So. Poppy McMahon. eh?
Thinks cats are vicious killers.
but we must protect
the great whites at all costs.
- Right.
- Well. thanks again.
It's really good of you.
- No. happy to go up
to the big smoke.
T20's on at Eden Park.
- Ah. Cricket.
Yeah. the wife and I are more.
uh― more AFL.
- They say there's no such thing
as a perfect woman. but first
day I met Jodie.
she's wearing the. uh―
the classic brown and beige shirt.
It's the old school uniform
for the Kiwi cricket team.
I knew right then and there ―
she's the one.
- Nothing like love
at first sight. eh?
Enjoy the cricket.
- See ya.
Thank you. You're gonna
get a medal for this.
- Medal?
- Constable Haira is going to
Barren Island to rescue Jewel.
- Oh.
- And the other five cats.
- Aw.
I mean.
it's an important job. Jamie.
- Yeah. nah.
Annette's doing all
the important jobs.
- Is she?
- Hey. The tyre track that Cole
took a photo of at Gordon's.
- Mm.
- That's the digger
I dragged out of the estuary.
- It's a match.
Well done. my husband.
- Mm.
So. Annette
is searching Gordon's computer.
looking for a rental agreement.
Or did they drive there in it...
and then drive it away?
- What. like a getaway
digger?
- Or maybe Gordon's
planning some work.
- Well. no way to find out now.
- Well. there is.
- Poppy murdered Gordon.
That is horrifying.
but not surprising.
- She's helping police
with inquiries.
- Gotcha.
- Sheree. was Gordon planning any
kind of building at his property?
- No. He loved that old house.
- Nothing he'd need
an excavator for?
- Not that I know of.
So. was it about the cats?
- So he hadn't recently
got a council permit for anything?
- Building consents are
the wider council. not us.
- Right.
- Oh. Hang on. do you mean the tree?
- Tree?
- The big old pohutukawa.
The council gave Gordon permission
to pull it out.
Poppy was not happy about that.
- To pull this tree up. that's
something you'd need a digger for?
- It's a very big one ―
over 20 years old.
Once a native gets to a certain
height. you need a permit.
Look. Gordon perhaps shouldn't
have been allowed to give himself
a permit.
but is a tree worth
stabbing someone for?
- That is a very good
question. Sheree.
- Huh.
- Hey.
So...
Gordon was going to remove a tree.
That's why he had an excavator.
- Do you remember
the first time we met?
Love at first sight.
- Hardly.
You were going out with
what's-her-face. and I was seeing―
- You with that dick
with the '90s goatee.
- Because it was the '90s. Cole.
- Yeah. but still. I knew...
- ...from the second
knew.
- Hey. Whoa. whoa. whoa.
What's― What's going on?
- I knew.
- Well. we don't have time for that.
- I knew that goatee-faced guy
would not last.
- You're right. He didn't.
- I worked out what the names
you found mean.
Reid. Ryder. Twose. Marshall.
First names ―
John. Jesse. Roger. Hamish.
They're cricketers.
Some of them are kind of obscure.
but they all represented New Zealand
at some point.
- Select and Swig
every Friday night.
- Exactly.
- Oh. honey. you are
a...  genius.
- Exactly.
- Well. I did have to Google it.
- Still. it wasn't about the cats.
- Hey. Hey. I got your text.
- Lincoln. thanks for coming.
This is my wife. Vinnie.
- Good to meet you. Lincoln.
- Likewise. Um. has
something come up?
- Yeah. Yeah.
I just. um. wanted to ask ― why did
you come here on Monday morning?
- Oh. I just. uh. bought him
a coffee. like I sometimes did.
cos I didn't know that he―
- You didn't know he was... dead.
Mm-hm. Yup.
- Yeah.
- Yeah. that's not quite
the genius move you think it is.
- I'm confused. Gordon was my mate.
- Bit dangerous being your mate.
- She needs to watch what
she's saying. your missus.
- Oh. Really?
Well. my 'missus' is right.
You lost your best friend
to a shark attack 20 years ago
where you were the only witness.
- What's that got to do with―
- And then last week. another
friend. another violent death.
- Two dead pals. One common factor.
- It's actually pretty cruel.
what you're saying.
- Well. if 'm gonna be
sorry. But 'm wrong.
- Because you were here
on Friday night. Even though
you said Gordon rain-checked.
- We're gonna start with
what we had for last week.
So we've got Rutherford.
- Yup.
- Your weekly Select and Swig
thing did happen.
- Reid. Ryder. Twose
and Marshall. right?
They were some of the what-if team
you wrote down that night?
- So that's why
you're falsely accusing me?
Cos of a list of cricket players?
- Nope.
Cos of the tree.
- And a shark. who
you falsely accused.
- Your friend didn't run into
a great white that night in 2001.
He ran into something
far more dangerous.
A so-called mate
in love with his girl and willing
to do anything to get her.
You killed Curtis.
Right? You buried him here
at your grandparents' bach.
put a tree on top of him.
- A tree that is now 20-years big.
and blocking Gordon's sea view.
- If he'd dug up that pohutukawa. he
would've found your secret. right?
- But he wouldn't bedeterred.
- Come on. mate. It's a native.
- It's a weed.
- I'm begging you to leave it.
I planted that thing as a tiny shrub.
- And I've got you to blame.
No. it's blocking my view.
Roots everywhere.
- No. you don't get it.
Things could go really bad for me.
I could lose everything.
including Jodie.
- What. you got a body buried
under there or something?
I'll go and get us another beer.
- Maybe you felt like there was
nothing else you could do.
- Hey there.
- Maybe it was easy.
You'd already killed once.
- Ah!
- This is all bullshit speculation.
Grabbing at straws.
Prove it.
- Be good if he wasn't late.
- He's usually quite punctual. I―
- Oh. Wait.
- What's― What's happening?
- We are proving it.
- Kia ora!
- Constable.
these two are on something ―
the rubbish they're talking.
- They think there's a body
under that tree.
Shall we have a look?
- You can't be serious.
- Love at first sight.
You know. when you―
when you said that about your wife.
it got me thinking.
It's a special thing.
when you find your soulmate.
- But yours was with someone else.
Your best mate. Curtis.
- Crack into it. constable.
- No!
Please.
can't―
I can't break her heart.
What would you do?
For the woman you love. You tell me.
- Well. I'd. um...
I'd wait till she realised
the guy she was with was a...
a goatee-faced dick.
and then I'd make my move
at a friend's divorce barbecue.
- Lincoln Fernsby.
Wouldn't be going anywhere just yet.
Just a tip-off we wanna look into.
- You know. I was only 90% sure
there was a body under that tree.
- Well. you're right
most of the time.
- Most?
Burnsie's divorce party.
It was me who made
the first move. Not you.
- Thanks for your assistance on
this one. constable. Not a bad job.
- Well. you know.
Bit of help from the consultants.
I have been really lucky having
them here. I've learned a lot.
- It's a bit odd though. isn't it?
A couple of small-town motel owners?
- Who used to be police detectives.
- Did you ever ask for
any kind of ID?
- No.
- Any evidence at all that
they're actually police?
- Well. I've had no reason to.
Look ― Vinnie and Cole
know what they're doing.
- The thing is...
I've been in touch with
New South Wales Homicide.
- Your mates.
the two detectives. Coleman.
no one's ever heard of them.
- Sorry?
- If those two people
were ever in the force.
wasn't in Sydney.
or anywhere else in Australia.
They're not who they say they are.
You've been taken for a ride. mate.
- This is Simona Cassidy
with you on Peninsula FM.
Keeping you warm through the storm.
- Hello?
- Are you actually ex-police?
- Where is this coming from?
- There's nothing online.
- Jamie. it's a choice we've made.
We don't want an online presence.
- 'd love to
know how he found us.
And we're just supposed to
walk away from another life now?
- Yeah.
- There goes the power lines.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today